farmers engage in farm tourism and farm school modernized agriculture without sacrificing the environment but increasing crop and livestock productivity agriculture day of the 2020 Longganisa Festival 
Under the Farm Tourism Development Act of 2016 or the Republic Act 10816, she said that this law helps the farmers to increase their income by providing alternative sources of income.
To put-up a farm school or farm tourism site, farmers Department of Agriculture (DA)
agricultural area farm tourism site and eventually made as farm school accredited as a learning site by the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA), Villar said the farm owners could earn up to P100,000 a month for the training of 25 students.
She said that the national government had allotted sufficient budget to the TESDA for payment to the trainers of the farmers and fisherfolks who will avail free agricultural skills training and study.
According to Villar, a total of 1,855 tourist farms and farm schools had already been established all over the country to accommodate all students or Filipinos, who are interested to learn new technologies for organic agriculture.
“We are also working on the accreditation of these farm schools to the TESDA for the payment by the agency to the tuition fees of all interested Filipinos, who want to learn agriculture in the farm schools,” she said.
“It is important for our farmers to learn the farm mechanization and new farming technologies to make them more profitable and more competitive,” she added.
Villar, who is the chairperson of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Food, assured that the Senate would pass new bills that are beneficial to the farmers and fisherfolks this year.
When the lawmakers passed the Rice Tarrification Law, Villar said that the Rice Competitiveness Enhancement Funds (RCEF) was created to ensure that all collected tariffs from rice importation will be given to all farmers.
The national government, through the General Appropriations Act, allotted P10 billion per year to make the Filipino rice farmers more productive and more competitive.
Under the RCEF program, she said that a total of 947 towns in 57 provinces were enumerated as the recipient of the P5 million worth of farm equipment every year. These farm types of equipment include transplanter, harvester, tiller, dryer and milling machine.
Aside from the farm equipment, Villar said the national government is also distributing 20 kilograms inbreed seed of rice to increase rice production per season.