 It was a great way to start the year when about 15 fisherfolk beneficiaries from the municipality of Claver in Surigao del Norte formally received on January 10, 2020, a total of 15 fiberglass-reinforced plastic (FRP) boats from the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR) - Caraga.

The distribution was headed by BFAR-Caraga Regional Director Visa Tan-Dimerin together with Mayor Georgia Gokiangkee of Claver.

The turnover ceremony was also attended by the members of the Sangguniang Bayan, Barangay Urbiztondo local officials, and BFAR-Caraga F/B Pagbabago focal person Restituto Bautista.

Aside from the 22-footer FRP boats, the recipients also received 7.5 horsepower diesel marine engines each. 

In her message, Gokiangkee expressed how they direly needed these programs for the fisherfolk's livelihood.

"To the beneficiaries, unta magmalampuson kamo sa inyo panginabuhi. Awhaga ang inyong kaubang mangingisda nga gamiton ang baroto sa legal nga pamaagi lamang (To the beneficiaries, I hope that you will be more successful in your livelihood. Encouraged your fellows to use the boats properly and legally as intended for their purpose)," said Gokiangkee.

On the other hand, Dimerin challenged the beneficiaries not to sell their boats and accessories because the 'Banka Ko, Gawa Ko' program is implemented for livelihood and to increase the food production or harvest, and to increase the income, as emphasized also by Department of Agriculture Secretary William Dar in his concept on the ‘new thinking’ for agriculture.

Dimerin also assured the participants that BFAR-Caraga will continue to support the municipality of Claver through various training and provide the beneficiaries with fishing nets for better catch and income.

Bautista, the F/B Pagbabago focal person, conducted a six-day hands-on training on the construction of FRP boats in Claver from November 26 to December 1, 2019.

BFAR provided the materials and trainers while the local government unit of Claver provided the working area, water, and electricity. The fisherfolk beneficiaries built the boats and are expected to maintain them.