LIM said increasing public awareness and enhancing the people’s appreciation of biodiversity is challenging.

“It is really difficult. What is biodiversity? Can we eat biodiversity?” Lim said, narrating how people react when asked the question about biodiversity.

He cites the difference in the old days when there was already a strong appreciation of biodiversity. The food people eat, the wide variety of fruits, even the wild boars and deer, are allowed before.

“Our traditional medicines [are another example]. Where do we get all these medicines [but] from plants found in our forests. We lost track of those revenues,” she said. “We realize the benefit that we can generate from our biodiversity.”

Lim said it is frustrating, however, when “the diversity of the food the people used to enjoy is vanishing.”

“We keep on importing fruits but we do not realize that we have native fruits of our own. Now you see dragon fruits being propagated. We have native fruits. We want the people to realize that we are rich in terms of food derived from biodiversity,” she said.
WITH half of its 30 million hectares of land classified as forest land, the Philippines was once thriving with high-value trees and lush forests. Logging, then a major economic activity, has contributed 12.5 percent to the country’s GDP in the 1970s.

Since the 1990s, the government started to implement a national reforestation program to recover from natural-resources depletion. Today, the wood industry relies largely on wood supply from other countries.

Home to plant and animal wildlife, the degradation of the country’s forests is one of the major drivers of biodiversity loss aside from the rampant illegal wildlife trade.

To mitigate the impacts of climate change, the government in 2010 imposed a ban on the harvesting of trees from natural and residual forests. At the same time, from 2010 to 2016, it implemented the National Greening Program (NGP), which is being touted to have successfully reforested 1.5 million hectares of open, degraded and denuded forest. Under the program, fuel wood, high-value crops, fruits and native species were transplanted.

The Duterte administration, for its part, implemented the P7.2-billion Enhanced-National Greening Program (E-NGP) to reforest the country’s open, degraded and denuded forests to continue the program until 2028.